Do this video we'll learn about virtual machines hosts and hypervisor.
And in order to truly understand what a virtual machine is we're actually going to start by thinking
about a physical machine a physical server.
So when we purchase a physical server it comes with memory CPQ it comes with Network Interface Cards
and adapters to connect to the disk capacity of that physical server so also comes with all that hardware
built in.
And then we install some operating system right in this case let's assume it's windows and then we can
run applications.
And what happens in the physical server is all of these applications run inside of our operating system
and the operating system kind of owns that hardware.
And so as applications are utilizing the hardware the operating system can control them can control
how much resources they have access to and it sort of handles the intermediation between the applications
and the hardware.
Self.
Now let's think about a virtual machine.
And instead of having a physical server here let's replace it with a host and instead of installing
a simple operating system on this host let's install a hypervisor instead.
And now we're not going to run applications on this physical system.
We're actually going to run virtual machines each with their own independent operating system.
Some of these V-Amp could be windows virtual machines some could be Linux.
It really doesn't matter.
And in this case the virtual machines are still running on the same physical system.
It will still buy a server the same way we always have and it will have memory and CPQ and physical
network interface cards and possibly storage adapters possibly local storage and then we're going to
install a hypervisor on it instead of installing Windows or Linux.
I'll install ESX II or Hyper-V or some other hypervisor and the hypervisor acts as the intermediary.
It interposes itself between the virtual machines and the hardware.
This is the magic sauce that makes virtualization work.
Now all of my Reems can share a common set of physical hardware.
I can have a bunch of virtual machines each with their own independent operating system sharing a common
set of memory CPQ common physical network interface cards and storage adapters as well.
And so as my first virtual machine goes to access hardware it's utilizing the memory of the host.
It's utilizing the C.P. of the host.
It's utilizing all of the physical resources of the host.
But what's happening is the hypervisor is actually the thing that's in control of those physical resources
the hypervisor has direct access to the physical hardware and it's controlling which virtual machines
get access to how much memory how much physical Sipa access do they get.
And how do they access their network and storage adapters.
And as more virtual machines are created on this hypervisor They're also sharing that exact same set
of physical resources.
So that's what the hypervisor controls as how are those resources shared how were those resources presented
to the individual virtual machines.